good evening I'm John Langley that
family dog became trapped on Christmas
Eve while Ralph Childers and his wife
were on a walk the trap was so strong it
took Ralph four days to get it off his
dog
Childress believes the trap was intended
for a bear which would be illegal but
Fish and Game's say it most likely was
for smaller animals KXLY fours Andy
Bishop explains what happened and why
state Fish and Game says this kind of
trapping isn't illegal this trail right
here this is the silver mountain bike
trail Ralph Childers his wife Jeanne and
two dogs walk this road every day they
live here above Kellogg in the trees for
the peace and quiet on Christmas Eve
that all changed
Henry was one of those dogs it was
curious Henry had gone ahead on their
walk disappearing down the snow-covered
trail I thought a coyote got him so I
you know it was one of those kind of
yaps it was just a very like yep
Ralph ran down that trail to find Henry
head down in the snow a few feet below
the trail so I came down he wasn't yep
and he wasn't moving it's like when I
flipped him over I went oh my goodness
Henry was caught in a steel trap a piece
of salmon disguised with the paper
rabbit cut out used as bait Ralph called
his neighbor police and Fish and Game
for how we couldn't get the trap off for
four days we actually had to kill the
dog because he was in such pain even
tying a rope to the end of two cars
using the weight to try to pry open the
trap you cannot open and while Ralph is
obviously upset his dog is now gone he
says this is more about Public Safety
this trail is used just about every day
by neighbors snowshoeing and cost
country skiing well you're definitely
gonna be real careful where you put your
feet because you could end up not having
a foot fishing game is investigating but
trapping isn't illegal in Idaho it says
this kind of trap is used to catch
Bobcat and other wildlife but not
domesticated animals like Henry trappers
are supposed to set their traps far away
from homes this was within kellogg city
limits
i'm sure whoever's doing this may not
mean to do the damage he's doing but the
damage is being done all Ralph once now
is for the other traps to be removed and
reset where kids and dogs don't play too
close it's a definitely a safe
the issue the dogwood you know is gone
we can't do anything about him and it's
sad but a human being this for more
important than a dog and this is this is
what we're looking at here in Kellogg
Amy Bishop KXLY four